# Crime-Prediction-using-Transformer-Architecture-core-tensorboard
With the continuous phenomenal rise in violent and non-violent crimes in Ghana, it’s im-pacts on society are becoming more pronounced and severe. Law enforcement agencies are therefore poised to find new and modern approaches to improve crime analytics in order to provide optimal protection for their respective communities. 
Thanks to the availability of large curated data this thesis investigates the collinearities be-tween urban features and crime occurrences and how they can be used for crime prediction models. A detailed quantitative study on the conventional and artificial intelligence tech-niques such as such as Support Vector Regression, Random Forest Regression, Decision tree and others has been conducted to critically establish a gap for a thesis. Also, deep learning techniques and algorithms were assessed to provide a holistic investigation into the prob-lem.
A Deep Convolutional-Dense hybrid denoising autoencoder network was developed for data imputation and subsequently, a Transformer Architecture is proposed in this thesis to de-velop a robust crime prediction model to assist law enforcement agencies in Ghana for op-timized sharing of security resources across the country to reduce crime rate in Ghana. The model in the context of crime intelligence analysis and law enforcement has the potential to improve crime analytics and decision making. 
From the experimental results, the Transformer architecture had Mean Absolute error of 1.01% as compared to the Support Vector Machine, Random Forest Regressor and the Multi Output Random Forest Regressor by effectively utilizing geospatial information provided in longitude latitude form.
